---
title: "Docker"
author: "Varun Bisht"
description: "Website basics terms and concepts-hosting, domain name, Git and SEO"
keywords: "web hosting,hosting meaning,domain name meaning,Git,SEO"
category: "docker"
permalink: "/docker/basics"
date: 2020-08-12 11:00:00 am
image: "/assets/img/docker/docker.png"
featureImage: "/assets/img/docker/docker.png"
---
Docker is a software that uses several features of the linux kernal(container, namespaces and Control groups) to run application in isolated environment.
Container bundles software, libraries and confgiuration files in it.All containers uses or depend on linux kernel and are lightweight, fast and uses fewer resources.


Benefits-

1. Isolation - Application in a container is isolated from other containers. This means there is no conflict in dependency, leakage in one container doesnot affect other.
2. You can run docker container application on any machine which has docker installed that is because container packages all of its dependcies with in it.
3. Docker helps developer to run applications on local with environment that matches production.
4. Containers compliments Continuous integration and Continuous delivery (CI/CD) flows.
5. Docker container can easily runs on local, virtual machine(VM) or cloud.
6. Docker is lightweight, fast and uses system resources most effectively.


Docker Architecture

architecture.svg

Docker consits of -
1. Docker client
2. Docker daemon
3. Docker Registries

Docker uses clinet-server architecture.
1. Docker client sends request to the server i.e docker daemon. Docker client can be command line, interface or any other tool.
But these tools communicate with docker daemon with REST API and that's why the client can communicate with more than one daemon.
2. Docker daemon - Its a service that runs on machine. It does all the work of creating, running and distributing docker containers.
It exposes REST API so that client can communicate with it.
3. Docker Registries - It contains docker images. Docker images are stored on the public regsitry i.e docker hub. By default, docker is configures to pull images from docker hub.

So to summarize, docker CLI(docker client) send request to docker daemon. Docker Daemon looks for images on docker regsitry and
after pulling image, it creates and run container.


Docker Objects

There are many terms and concept which we will require in further tutorials. Lets discuss them

1. Images- Docker Image is a read only template using which docker container gets created.
You can use docker images directly from docker hub or you can create custom images.For Eg- you can use linux image and install your application on it with additional confgiurations.
An image is moslty depend on another image i.e base image.
You can create your custom image by creating Docker File which contains instructions to create the images.
Each instruction in docker file creates a layer. Whenever you recreate images after doing changes in docker file. Then only those layers which contain those changes gets rebuilt.
We will learn about image in more depth in Docker Images section.

2. Docker Hub - Docker Hub is a public regsitry for docker images. You can find many images and share your images to others.
By Defult, docker looks for imgaes in Docker hub.

3. Containers- Container is a runtime instance of Docker image. You can perform operations on container like run, stop, delete etc.
By Default, any changes done in container will not persist and also container is isolated. For this, you can provide storage and network confgiuration at the start of container.

4. Network - Networking in docker allow how containers will communicate with each other. Docker provides different types of networks and will manage all the internal modifications of routing tables.

5. Storage
