---
title: "Off-Site SEO"
author: "Varun Bisht"
description: "Off-Site SEO Techniques"
blogDesc: "Off-Site SEO is all about bringing traffic to your website without changing your website. Backlink plays an important role and will discuss approaches like- Guest Blogging, Social Media Marketing and Influencer Marketing to increase backlinks. Will also share references for your further reading."
keywords: "off page seo tutorial,off page seo techniques"
category: "create a website"
permalink: "/create-a-website/off-site-seo"
image: "/assets/img/create-a-website/off-site-seo/seo.jpg"
featureImage: "/assets/img/create-a-website/off-site-seo/seo.jpg"
---
# Offsite SEO

Off-Site SEO is all about bringing traffic to your website without changing your website.
This seo techniques bring **authority and trustworthiness** to your website.
It includes-
   - Backlinks
   - Guest Blogging
   - Social media marketing
   - Influencer Marketing

### So lets start -

- **Backlinks**

   This is the most important part of Offsite SEO. Backlink is a link from someones website to your website.
   Higher the backlinks will lead to better site ranking than similar site with fewer backlinks.
   Weightage of backlink increases when refering website is trustworthy and popular.

   We will learn how to get this backlink easily in next points.

- **Guest Blogging**

   Guest Blogging is the way of writing content on someone's website. In this content, you will basically refer your website blogs i.e backlink to get traffic. This way you will get traffic from trustworthy domains.

   You can write content on platforms like [Medium](https://medium.com "Medium") and [Ghost](https://ghost.org "Ghost") which is free for blogging.

- **Social media marketing**

   Social marketing does not contribute directly to SEO. But it contributes to SEO in many ways-

   1. Sharing post on social media will lead to viral of your post and ulitmately leads to overall traffic increase on the website.
   2. Sharing of social media posts will create backlink to your website which builds website Authority.

   You can share your post on social media likes twitter, facebook, instagram and linkedin.

- **Influencer Marketing**

   Influencer marketing means collaborating with online influencer so that they can endorse your product.
   Influencer does not need to be celebrity, he/she must have large number of online audience.


These are the ways which leads to your website traffic and help in building your brand.

Keep in mind, it takes a long time to build an audience and patience is most important.

This lead to the end of this SEO series. In the upcoming posts, we will introduce on **How to integrate Cloudflare**.

### Further Study Material
1. [Social Media Marketing](https://www.lyfemarketing.com/blog/social-media-seo "Social Media Marketing")
2. [Off-Site SEO](https://moz.com/learn/seo/off-site-seo "Off-Site SEO")
3. [Influencer Marketing](https://influencermarketinghub.com/what-is-influencer-marketing/ "Influencer Marketing")
